.\"
.\" cups-oauth man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2025 by OpenPrinting.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cups-oauth 1 "CUPS" "2025-03-04" "OpenPrinting"
.SH NAME
cups-oauth \- interact with an oauth/openid authorization server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-oauth
.B \-\-help
.br
.B cups-oauth
.B \-\-version
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
] [
.B \-s
.I SCOPE(S)
]
.B authorize
.I [RESOURCE]
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B clear
.I [RESOURCE]
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B get-access-token
.I [RESOURCE]
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B get-client-id
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B get-metadata
.I [NAME]
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B get-user-id
.I [RESOURCE]
.I [NAME]
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B set-access-token
.I [RESOURCE]
.I TOKEN
.br
.B cups-oauth
[
.B \-a
.I OAUTH-URI
]
.B set-client-data
.I CLIENT-ID
.I CLIENT-SECRET
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cups-oauth
utility interacts with an OAuth/OpenID authorization server.
Authorizations are often linked to a resource (a printer URI, web page URL, etc.)
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B cups-oauth:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Show program usage.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Show the CUPS version.
.TP 5
\fB\-a \fIOAUTH-URI\fR
Specifies the OAuth/OpenID authorization server URL.
.TP 5
\fB\-s \fISCOPE(S)\fR
Specifies a space-delimited list of scope names to use when authorizing access.
The default is to request authorization for all supported scopes.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS authorize
Starts an authorization workflow with the default web browser.
If a resource URI is specified, the authorization is specific to that resource.
The access token is send to the standard output on success.
.SS clear
Clears any authorization for the specified resource or for all resources if no resource URI is supplied.
.SS get-access-token
Output the current, unexpired access token, if any, to the standard output.
.SS get-client-id
Output the client ID string, if any, to the standard output.
.SS get-metadata
Get the OAuth/OpenID authorization server metadata and send it to the standard output.
If a name is specified, the output is just the value for the specified metadata.
.SS get-user-id
Get the OpenID user ID information and send it to the standard output.
If a name is specified, the output is just the named claim from the user ID.
.SS set-access-token
Set the access token (which is sometimes also called an API key) for the specified resource or for all resources.
.SS set-client-data
Set the client ID string and secret for an OAuth/OpenID authorization server.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The
.B CUPS_OAUTH_URI
environment variable sets the default OAuth/OpenID authorization server URL.
.PP
The
.B CUPS_OAUTH_SCOPES
environment variable sets the default OAuth/OpenID scopes as a space-delimited list.
.SH NOTES
CUPS uses a redirect URI of "http://127.0.0.1/" for all authorization on the local system.
.SH EXAMPLES
TBD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2025 by OpenPrinting.
