.\"
.\" cups-x509 man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2025 by OpenPrinting.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH cups-x509 1 "CUPS" "2025-03-04" "OpenPrinting"
.SH NAME
cups-x509 \- description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-x509
.B \-\-help
.br
.B cups-x509
.B \-\-version
.br
.B cups-x509
[
.B \-\-pin
] [
.B \-\-require\-ca
] [
.B \-C
.I COUNTRY
] [
.B \-L
.I LOCALITY
] [
.B \-O
.I ORGANIZATION
] [
.B \-R
.I CSR-FILENAME
] [
.B \-S
.I STATE-PROVINCE
] [
.B \-U
.I ORGANIZATIONAL-UNIT
] [
.B \-a
.I SUBJECT-ALT-NAME
] [
.B \-d
.I DAYS
] [
.B \-p
.I PURPOSE
] [
.B \-r
.I ROOT-NAME
] [
.B \-t
.I TYPE
] [
.B \-u
.I USAGE
]
.I COMMAND
.I [ARGUMENT(S)]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cups-x509
utility manages X.509 certificates and certificate requests, and supports client and server tests.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B cups-x509:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Show program usage.
.TP 5
.B \-\-pin
Pin the server's X.509 certificate found by the client command.
.TP 5
.B \-\-require\-ca
Require the server's X.509 certificate found by the client command to be signed by a known CA.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Show the CUPS version.
.TP 5
\fB-C \fICOUNTRY\fR
Specify the country for new X.509 certificates and certificate requests.
.TP 5
\fB-L \fILOCALITY\fR
Specify the locality (city, town, etc.) for new X.509 certificates and certificate requests.
.TP 5
\fB-O \fIORGANIZATION\fR
Specify the organization name for new X.509 certificates and certificate requests.
.TP 5
\fB-R \fICSR-FILENAME\fR
Specify an X.509 certificate signing request in PEM format to be used when signing a certificate with the
.B ca
command.
.TP 5
\fB-S \fISTATE-PROVINCE\fR
Specify the state/province name for new X.509 certificates and certificate requests.
.TP 5
\fB-U \fIORGANIZATIONAL-UNIT\fR
Specify the organizational unit name for new X.509 certificates and certificate requests.
.TP 5
\fB-a \fISUBJECT-ALT-NAME\fR
Specify an alternate name for new X.509 certificates and certificate requests.
.TP 5
\fB-d \fIDAYS\fR
Specify the number of days before a new X.509 certificate will expire.
.TP 5
\fB-p \fIPURPOSE\fR
Specify the purpose of the X.509 certificate or certificate request as a comma-delimited list of purposes.
The supported purposes are "serverAuth" for TLS server authentication, "clientAuth" for TLS client authentication, "codeSigning" for executable code signing, "emailProtection" for S/MIME encryption and signing, "timeStamping" for secure timestamps, and "OCSPSigning" for Online Certificate Status Protocol services.
.TP 5
\fB-r \fIROOT-NAME\fR
Specify the common name of the X.509 root certificate to use.
The default root certificate is named "_site_".
.TP 5
\fB-t \fITYPE\fR
Specify the certificate type - "rsa-2048" for 2048-bit RSA, "rsa-3072" for 3072-bit RSA, "rsa-4096" for 4096-bit RSA, "ecdsa-p256" for 256-bit ECDSA, "ecdsa-p384" for 384-bit ECDSA, or "ecdsa-p521" for 521-bit ECDSA.
.TP 5
\fB-u \fIUSAGE\fR
Specify the usage for the certificate as a comma-delimited list of uses.
The supported uses are "digitalSignature", "nonRepudiation", "keyEncipherment", "dataEncipherment", "keyAgreement", "keyCertSign", "cRLSign", "encipherOnly", and  "decipherOnly".
The preset "default-ca" specifies those uses required for a Certificate Authority, and the preset "default-tls" specifies those uses required for TLS.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS ca COMMON-NAME
Sign a certificate request for the specified common name.
.SS cacert COMMON-NAME
Create a CA certificate for the specified common name.
.SS cert COMMON-NAME
Create a certificate for the specified common name.
.SS client URI
Connect to the specified URI and validate the server's certificate.
.SS csr COMMON-NAME
Create a certificate signing request for the specified common name.
.SS server COMMON-NAME[:PORT]
Run a HTTPS test server that echos back the resource path for every GET request.
If PORT is not specified, uses a port number from 8000 to 8999.
.SS show COMMON-NAME
Shows any stored credentials for the specified common name.
.SH EXAMPLES
TBD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cups (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2025 by OpenPrinting.
