.\"
.\" lpstat man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2020-2024 by OpenPrinting.
.\" Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright © 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more information.
.\"
.TH lpstat 1 "CUPS" "2024-04-02" "OpenPrinting"
.SH NAME
lpstat \- print cups status information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpstat
[
\fB\-h \fIhostname\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-E
] [
.B \-H
] [
.B \-U
.I username
] [
.B \-l
] [
.B \-W
.I which-jobs
] [
.B \-a
[
.I destination(s)
] ] [
.B \-c
[
.I class(es)
] ] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-e
] [
.B \-o
[
.I destination(s)
] ] [
.B \-p
[
.I printer(s)
] ] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-R
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-u
[
.I user(s)
] ] [
.B \-v
[
.I printer(s)
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpstat\fR displays status information about the current classes, jobs, and printers.
When run with no arguments, \fBlpstat\fR will list active jobs queued by the current user.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBlpstat\fR command supports the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
.B \-H
Shows the server hostname and port.
.TP 5
.B \-R
Shows the ranking of print jobs.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Specifies an alternate username.
.TP 5
\fB\-W \fIwhich-jobs\fR
Specifies which jobs to show, "all, "successful", "completed" or "not-completed" (the default).
This option \fImust\fR appear before the \fI-o\fR option and/or any printer names, otherwise the default ("not-completed") value will be used in the request to the scheduler.
.TP 5
\fB\-a \fR[\fIprinter(s)\fR]
Shows the accepting state of printer queues.
If no printers are specified then all printers are listed.
.TP 5
\fB\-c \fR[\fIclass(es)\fR]
Shows the printer classes and the printers that belong to them.
If no classes are specified then all classes are listed.
.TP 5
.B \-d
Shows the current default destination, either the
.BR lpoptions (1)
default (if set) or the scheduler default (otherwise).
.TP 5
.B \-e
Shows all available destinations on the local network.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
Specifies an alternate server.
Note: This option must occur before all others.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Shows a long listing of printers, classes, or jobs.
.TP 5
\fB\-o \fR[\fIdestination(s)\fR]
Shows the jobs queued on the specified destinations.
If no destinations are specified all jobs are shown.
.TP 5
\fB\-p \fR[\fIprinter(s)\fR]
Shows the printers and whether they are enabled for printing.
If no printers are specified then all printers are listed.
.TP 5
.B \-r
Shows whether the CUPS server is running.
.TP 5
.B \-s
Shows a status summary, including the default destination, a list of classes and their member printers, and a list of printers and their associated devices.
This is equivalent to using the \fI\-d\fR, \fI\-c\fR, and \fI\-v\fR options.
.TP 5
.B \-t
Shows all status information.
This is equivalent to using the \fI\-r\fR, \fI\-d\fR, \fI\-c\fR, \fI\-v\fR, \fI\-a\fR, \fI\-p\fR, and \fI\-o\fR options.
.TP 5
\fB\-u \fR[\fIuser(s)\fR]
Shows a list of print jobs queued by the specified users.
If no users are specified, lists the jobs queued by the current user.
.TP 5
\fB\-v \fR[\fIprinter(s)\fR]
Shows the printers and what device they are attached to.
If no printers are specified then all printers are listed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables override the default destination:
.TP 5
.B LPDEST
Specifies the default print queue (System V standard).
.TP 5
.B PRINTER
Specifies the default print queue (Berkeley standard).
.SH CONFORMING TO
Unlike the System V printing system, CUPS allows printer names to contain any printable character except SPACE, TAB, "/", and "#".
Also, printer and class names are \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
The \fI\-h\fR, \fI-e\fR, \fI\-E\fR, \fI\-U\fR, and \fI\-W\fR options are unique to CUPS.
.LP
The Solaris \fI\-f\fR, \fI\-P\fR, and \fI\-S\fR options are silently ignored.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cancel (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpq (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lprm (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2020-2024 by OpenPrinting.
